PAUL: Hello, and welcome to the
"Supercharged" Q&A. I'm Paul.
SURMA: And I'm Surma.
PAUL: Yes.
Now, we get
questions on YouTube,
on Twitter, all sorts of places.
And this time we're going to
answer just the one question.
And you've chosen it.
Which one did you go for?
SURMA: I chose the question
that I thought was interesting,
because it had so many layers.
And it is, what's the
best way of injecting
new content on scroll,
because layout is expensive?
You see what I did
there with the layers?
PAUL: Dude.
Get a grip.
SURMA: Sorry, sorry.
PAUL: Yeah.
The person's right.
Injecting content is
expensive on scroll.
Two reasons, right?
You're scrolling, so
you've got an animation.
And so you want to keep
everything nice and fluid,
60 frames a second.
And then you basically
trigger layouts and styles
and paint in one go by
attaching content to the DOM.
So I totally get where
they're going for.
Or what they're going for.
The first thing I thought was to
use something like containment.
But that's only going
to be Chrome 52.
And it's not
available everywhere.
But you'll be able to be like,
the thing that's having content
injected, you'll be like,
contain content, or contain
strict, and then at least
the layout and paint
and so on, all
those calculations,
are at least locked
into that element.
But I know that you've been
doing some work recently
with some Chrome engineers
on an infinite scroller.
So why don't you explain
what's going on there?
SURMA: So layout is expensive.
But it's also something that
you can't really get around.
When you attach
something new, it
will has to be a layout
into your document.
Otherwise, the browser
won't know where to put it.
So another approach to
basically keeping the cost down
is to just keep the
number of elements
that are in the DOM low.
PAUL: So we've seen
this before, right?
With recycling views
basically on native.
This is a fairly standard thing.
Just recycling them.
OK.
SURMA: So then one thing that
we did that basically, we
keep only the elements that
are actually on screen,
and a little bit on
the top and the bottom
when you scroll up and down.
But basically, the
further out you go,
there's not going to be
any elements anymore.
We just used the space
with an empty element
instead of having all the
actual content up there.
PAUL: So you've still
got the recycling,
which I going to trigger layout
and paint and all those things.
But by the sounds it, by
keeping the DOM count low--
SURMA: Exactly.
PAUL: You basically--
SURMA: It is fast enough.
PAUL: Fast enough.
As in fast enough on mobile or
just fast enough on desktop?
SURMA: Both, actually.
That was one of the targets.
Actually fast enough even on
mid-range to low range devices,
that they can keep
up with the work.
So you will have
the smooth scrolling
at 60 frames per second.
PAUL: OK.
So the other
question I had is, I
know it does some tombstoning.
So explain, at
least for me again,
what the tombstoning
thing actually does.
SURMA: So tombstoning
is this technique
where you, because you
don't have your data yet--
in this example, you're
actually embedding
a network source, where
we get the data in that we
want to show.
But sometimes, people
scroll that fast,
that you have to be
on screen, but you
don't have the data yet.
So instead of putting nothing
or janking or blocking,
we put a tombstone,
which says, there's
going to be content here.
Which is something that Facebook
actually does prominently
when you open the app.
Where you just show,
here's going to be a post.
And it show empty lines with
no text, just gray boxes.
PAUL: OK.
SURMA: And once data
arrives, it actually
turns into the actual item
it's supposed to displayed.
And we do the same thing.
So when the user
actually scrolls
too fast for us to
keep up with, we,
instead of attaching nothing
and not being able to scroll,
we attach tombstones.
So that allows us to
keep the school going,
and then we take care of
staying in the same position
once the data arrives, because
the element could grow,
because it is unexpectedly
large amount of text
or there is an image in there.
All these kind of things.
And it makes the user
experience very smooth.
PAUL: So one of the
things that occurred to me
about this was, it sounds
like that prioritizes
the scroll above
everything else, which is
absolutely crucial thing to do.
It's like, that's
the interaction
that the user's got.
Yes, they want to
see the content,
but they don't want you to
get in the way of the scroll,
because that feels
awful to people.
Do you use anything
like requestIdleCallback
to make sure that the main
thread is available for work
before actually spending time
trying to populate the dataset,
or is that not something
that gets done yet?
SURMA: We animate a fetch, and
once data comes back, we check.
I don't think we use
requestIdleCallback
in the demo.
But we check if the
element is still on screen.
If it even needs
to get attached.
Because if its off
screen already,
and the user has been
scrolling so fast,
there's no need in
treating the layout
and then removing it
again, because it's already
way off screen.
So that is the kind of
booking. requestIdleCallback
would be great though, if we
know that we are on screen,
but maybe the browser is
still busy with decoding
fetch request or something.
So it would be worth
decoding that first,
and waiting until the
browser's actually
available to attach the data
to replacing the tombstone.
PAUL: All right.
Cool.
So basically, I
think in summary,
it's like avoid it if you can.
If you can't avoid it,
keep the cost down.
And then basically, be really,
really tactical about the work
that you do, either by checking
that the thing is still
in the window and still
needs to be dealt with.
Or maybe even
considering something
like requestIdleCallback.
SURMA: Only do the go work
that you really need to do.
That is one of the things
I learned with this.
And also really
important I think
is, always test
on a real device.
Like we have
emulation mode, which
is good to see if layout works
and you can even throttle down
the network.
You can, I think, in
future versions of Chrome,
you can even throttle down the
CPU to emulate a slower device.
But nothing is going to
tell you how weird it really
feels once you're on a RAM
constrained and CPU constrained
device.
And realize, even though
it works fine on desktop,
on mobile, you're
way below 60 FPS.
Which we had a couple of
times with this thing.
And it's just a
complete new experience
if you actually are on a device.
PAUL: OK.
Well, I guess that's it.
Like we said, basically
avoid the work when you can.
Performance is the
art of avoiding work.
And if you can't avoid
it, keep it to a minimum.
So with that, I guess,
we'll catch you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]